---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "emma_vm Resource - emma"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  This resource creates a virtual machine according to the specified parameters.
  To create a virtual machine, follow these steps:
  
  Select a data center using the emma_data_center data source. The data center determines the provider and location of the virtual machine.
  Select an available hardware configuration for the virtual machine.
  Select or create an SSH key for the virtual machine using the emma_ssh_key resource.
  Select an operating system using the emma_operating_system data source.
  Choose one of the cloud network types: multi-cloud, isolated, or default. Choose the multi-cloud network type if you need to connect compute instances from different providers.
  Select or create an security group for the virtual machine using the emma_security_group resource. You may choose not to specify a security group. In this case, the virtual machine will be added to the default security group.
---

# emma_vm (Resource)

This resource creates a virtual machine according to the specified parameters.

To create a virtual machine, follow these steps:

1. Select a data center using the `emma_data_center` data source. The data center determines the provider and location of the virtual machine.

2. Select an available hardware configuration for the virtual machine.

3. Select or create an SSH key for the virtual machine using the `emma_ssh_key` resource.

4. Select an operating system using the `emma_operating_system` data source.

5. Choose one of the cloud network types: multi-cloud, isolated, or default. Choose the multi-cloud network type if you need to connect compute instances from different providers.

6. Select or create an security group for the virtual machine using the `emma_security_group` resource. You may choose not to specify a security group. In this case, the virtual machine will be added to the default security group.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "emma_vm" "vm" {
  name               = "Example"
  data_center_id     = data.emma_data_center.aws.id
  os_id              = data.emma_operating_system.ubuntu.id
  cloud_network_type = "multi-cloud"
  vcpu_type          = "shared"
  vcpu               = 2
  ram_gb             = 1
  volume_type        = "ssd"
  volume_gb          = 8
  security_group_id  = emma_security_group.security_group.id
  ssh_key_id         = emma_ssh_key.ssh_key.id
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `cloud_network_type` (String) Cloud network type, available values: multi-cloud, isolated, or default, virtual machine will be recreated after changing this value
- `data_center_id` (String) Data center ID of the virtual machine, virtual machine will be recreated after changing this value
- `name` (String) Name of the virtual machine, virtual machine will be recreated after changing this value
- `os_id` (Number) Operating system ID of the virtual machine, virtual machine will be recreated after changing this value
- `ram_gb` (Number) Capacity of the RAM in gigabytes, the process of edit hardware will start after changing this value
- `ssh_key_id` (Number) Ssh key ID of the virtual machine, virtual machine will be recreated after changing this value
- `vcpu` (Number) Number of virtual Central Processing Units (vCPUs), the process of edit hardware will start after changing this value
- `vcpu_type` (String) Type of virtual Central Processing Units (vCPUs), available values: shared, standard or hpc, virtual machine will be recreated after changing this value
- `volume_gb` (Number) Volume size in gigabytes, the process of edit hardware will start after changing this value
- `volume_type` (String) Volume type of the compute instance, available values: ssd or ssd-plus, the process of edit hardware will start after changing this value

### Optional

- `security_group_id` (Number) Security group ID of the virtual machine, the process of changing the security group will start after changing this value

### Read-Only

- `cost` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--cost))
- `disks` (Attributes List) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--disks))
- `id` (String) ID of the virtual machine
- `networks` (Attributes List) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--networks))
- `status` (String) Status of the virtual machine

<a id="nestedatt--cost"></a>
### Nested Schema for `cost`

Read-Only:

- `currency` (String) Currency of cost
- `price` (Number) Cost of the virtual machine for the period
- `unit` (String) Cost period


<a id="nestedatt--disks"></a>
### Nested Schema for `disks`

Read-Only:

- `id` (Number) Volume ID
- `is_bootable` (Boolean) Indicates whether the volume is bootable or not
- `size_gb` (Number) Volume size in gigabytes
- `type` (String) Volume type
- `type_id` (Number) ID of the volume type


<a id="nestedatt--networks"></a>
### Nested Schema for `networks`

Read-Only:

- `id` (Number) Network ID
- `ip` (String) Network IP
- `network_type` (String) Network type
- `network_type_id` (Number) ID of the network type
